# CasualtIS
###### Version: 1.0.0<br>Developers: Yad Fatah, Lynn Wahab, Mark Nourallah<br>License: MIT License

CasualtIS is a tool that uses RDF technologies coupled with SPARQL queries to fact check claims on Iraqi and Syrian wartime death toll data and prevent the spread of misinformation.

## Technology Stack

CasualtIS uses a number of tools, frameworks and programming languages to achieve results. Stored data is scraped from the web using Java and cleaned using Python before being converted to linked data and turtle files generated by using RMLMapper Java CLI tool. The client tool is built using Laravel PHP Framework and the frontend uses Vue.js for reactive data and Axios.js for consuming RESTful APIs on the backend. Apache Jena Fuseki is used as the choice of open source RDF store and a MySQL database is used to store sample queries. SPARQL is the language used for all queries.

## MIT License

Copyright (c) 2021 American University of Beirut

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
